If you want to start an AI consulting
business in 2026, this is a step-by-step
playbook to get you from $0 all the way
to $25,000 a month or beyond. I'm also
going to hand you guys the exact
templates and the systems that I use for
free, so you don't have to waste years
of your life figuring all this stuff out
like I did. If you don't know who I am,
I've scaled multiple agencies to 160
grand a month in combined revenue. I've
also spent many hundreds of thousands of
dollars of my own money mapping out the
exact best route to growing and running
an AI consulting agency today. So, by
the end of this video, you will
understand and be able to execute on the
five pillars of an AI consulting agency,
which are marketing, sales, onboarding,
fulfillment, and then finally,
retention. I will give you resources,
I'll give you scripts, and I'll also
give you guys templates, I think even a
couple of workflows just to help you do
all this. It's all 100% free. Again,
just check the link in the description
if you guys want more. Ready to get
going? Let's do it. So, I'm going to run
through each of these pillars in the
order that a lead would flow through
your business. Let's start with the
beginning, which is marketing. at the
front end of any business, whether it is
an AI consulting agency or something
else. This is ultimately where you want
to focus all of your energy and
attention because if you don't have
leads, you don't have a business, you
barely even have a hobby. You know, if
you're at $0 in revenue and you're
spending literally any of your time on
anything that is not just directly
generating leads, you are, as a rule,
wasting money. And my recommendation is
quit procrastinating. You know that
marketing is the only thing that
matters. So, do the thing. Okay. So, now
that I'm done with this beginners,
hopefully you know where I stand. Let's
break down the four major marketing
mechanisms that actually work for
beginners today. Those are platform
sales, cold email, communities, and then
cold DMs. And I'm also going to give you
guys assets related to every one of
them. So each marketing method comes
with a bunch of trade-offs. I'm going to
rank them across three axes. The time
investment that they require, the
capital investment that they require,
and then ultimately the technical
barrier to entry. So first off, platform
sales like Upwork or Freelancer.com or
Fiverr, etc. These generally speaking
have the highest time outlay. They have
very low capital requirements and they
also have low barrier to entries. But
they're also probably in contrast the
least scalable marketing mechanism
because most of them require a direct
time investment that you need to provide
in order to generate leads. That said,
I've made well over $500,000 directly
from just Upwork. Uh it's also why I
recommend most people start because this
allows you to go directly to the very
top of the buying ladder. In case you
guys don't know what that means,
basically instead of having to gain
people's attention and then convince
them that they are suffering from a
problem and then convince them that
there is a solution to that problem and
then convince them that you actually are
the right fit to deliver that solution,
you get to skip all that BS. You instead
just get to talk to business owners that
literally have money in their hands and
have already declared to the platform
that they know the problem, they know
the solution, they just want you to fix
it. So, while platforms like this do
obviously come with trade-offs, it is a
comparatively low barrier way to start
gaining clients and then pay down uh you
know the concepts of skill debt, client
management debt, and like a bunch of
debt that you don't really know you have
to bring in a bunch of early revenue
super super quick. So, I'm going to use
specifically Upwork as an example here
just because it's where I have the most
experience, although obviously there are
people crushing it on a variety of
platforms. The things to know for Upwork
specifically are your CV, it has to pop,
and then custom videos or assets.
Basically, you need a way to make your
proposal stand out. And for both of
these, I have templates in the link
below in the description. So, you guys
can just take a look at that and then
get, I want to say 80% of the way there.
Uh, most of these tactics took me many,
many years to learn, but ultimately have
made me over half a million dollars.
Okay, cold email. This one has a very
low time requirement. Basically, you
just have an initial setup and then you
have a small ongoing time need. You have
a medium upfront cost and then you have
a very high barrier to entry. And so,
that's sort of the lay of the land if
you compare that to, you know, platform
sales. This is a lot harder to get
right. But then marginally speaking, you
know, per additional lead generated, it
costs a lot less. And the reason why is
because in order to be effective, there
are a lot of deep skills you need to
know. But obviously, this has the
highest upside. I've generated and
helped people generate millions of
dollars with cold email much, much more
with Upwork because it's super high
leverage if you learn how to write, you
know, effective emails and cold email
copy and, you know, how to set up your
infrastructure and stuff like that. Cold
email is basically a money printer. And
the beauty is it scales independent of
your actual time involvement. meaning
you can send, you know, 20 emails a day
or 2,000 emails a day with literally the
exact same system, which is wild. So, to
get you guys started, I have a high
performing cold email formula plus a
couple of scripts that you guys can just
directly copy and then repurpose again
down below in the description. But in
general, I want you to know that your
first campaign's probably going to be
your worst. As long as you guys have the
runway and the perseverance in order to
continue, you can eventually get cold
email to a place where it actually works
for you. I'll also show you guys an
example of both a cold email script and
then a cold DM script in just a minute.
Okay, let's do communities. Communities
are very high time outlay. They're very
very low cost and they're also very low
barrier to entry. But then you know in
terms of the results they're pretty
mid-tier. So what I mean is you can
absolutely land clients hanging out in
Slack or school or Reddit. You know I
get people in maker school saying that
all the time. Although it is something
of a grind and it's not exactly the most
scalable marketing mechanism. Certainly
nowhere near as much so as something
like cold email or ads or whatnot. The
main objective with communities is
basically just building authority and
then becoming the go-to person in a
group for a given subject, whatever that
subject may be. And all of that requires
consistency, which is the thing that
nobody wants to hear. And all
consistency is is you just show up every
day or every two days or every 3 days
and just comment and post value and then
DM people that ask you questions and
just be around, you know, 24/7. I like
to think of it kind of like fishing in
Runescape. You know, it's very, very
slow to start. When you get to a high
level, you become super valuable because
you can fish swordfish and that's fun.
Also, the relationships that you build
here in any sort of community, you know,
I want you to know they're capable of
growing far past what you initially may
have wanted them to be. Like, I can't
tell you the number of fantastic
relationships I myself have made through
communities and uh the really great
relationships that I've seen people make
in Maker School and beyond. So, a lot of
people across communities are crushing
it with this approach. Uh what I've done
is attached a couple of templates that
you guys could use to help structure out
your own posts. Basically, like a highle
skeleton you guys could just slot in
your own things. The key part here is
you just want to deliver value. You just
want to basically solve a problem that
people in the community are suffering
from. It's actually pretty easy to
figure that out. You can just filter the
community by questions or something like
that in order to get, you know, things
that people are asking and that they
need help with. And then you can just
create a big content calendar solving
each of those day by day or week by week
depending on how active you want to be,
plus reply guy in the community and sort
of being present and so on and so forth.
Okay. And then finally, cold DMs, which
are kind of like cold email. They're
just over social media platforms. These
have high time commitments, low capital
outlays. They don't really cost that
much money cuz Facebook, Instagram,
LinkedIn, X, these are all free. Um, but
then very high barrier to entry because
again they are like psychology
techniques and so on and so forth. I
want you to know that results vary
pretty wildly depending on the niche and
the offer. If you guys are just DMing
random founders on LinkedIn and using a
copy and paste template, you're probably
going to get ghosted more often than
not. But if you learn how to send
precise and hyperpersonalized messages,
or at least messages that seem precise
and hyperpersonalized, and you do it
consistently for a long period of time,
this can be a gold mine. I actually just
did an interview a couple of weeks ago
with a young guy from Maker School. I
think his name is Julian, and he closed
almost $15,000 last month, predominantly
from LinkedIn outreach. So, a lot of
people are currently using this to
crush. The real hack, in my opinion, is
to make things seem customized and
direct. And you do that by being
informal. So, you don't want to be, you
know, too formal, but at the same time,
you also don't want to make it seem like
you're not putting in any effort.
There's like a fine balance you need to
walk between um customizing the hell out
of everything and then copy and pasting
the same thing over and over and over
again. Luckily for you, I have an
example pitch in the link down below.
Take a look at it. In general, when you
guys are doing some sort of cold
outreach, you should follow a structure
that loosely resembles this one from
Instantly. Instantly being a cold email
platform. Start with some
personalization. Then show them a value
prop. Then talk about their niche. Then
discuss their goal. Then give them a
relevant case study. Then leave them
with a cliffhanger before finally giving
them a CTA or call to action. An example
with a real piece of messaging might
look something like this. Hey Sarah,
I've been seeing XYZ wellness everywhere
recently. a huge work. Uh, I help health
companies automate their onboarding and
reduce churn with a $15,000 a month
minimum guarantee. Just helped a
supplement company add 32K in revenue in
one month. Can I show you how I do the
same for you? No strings. Notice what's
happening here. This is short. It's
specific. It's very clear. No fluff. I'm
not begging for a meeting. What we're
doing is we're showing them that we did
our homework. We explain exactly what it
is we do. We give them proof. Then we
give them a question. What's that
$15,000 a month revenue added guarantee?
And then we open the door. And you know,
if you send this sort of thing to enough
people and if you implement some niche
specific techniques, you can perform
really well. We have lots of people
doing that right now within Maker
School. So you can get this script and
more lead genen templates below in the
description. All right, time to talk
about sales. So let's say you did all of
the above and your lead generation is
running really well and you've now
gotten to the point where you're booking
meetings consistently. Well, it is now
time to sell them. And here's the sales
frame that I want you to remember. Sales
today is not about tricking people like
it may have used to be. It is about
uncovering their pain, showing how your
problem solves that pain, and then
positioning yourself as the obvious
investment. That is it. So, I personally
use a very simple sales structure, and
I've also taught the same thing to over
6,000 people now, many of which have
used it to close deals worth as much as
$60,000 upfront. I'm going to include
this below in the description and give
you guys a brief overview here. It's
around 30 to 45 minutes when all said
and done, and it's very straightforward.
Here is the structure. You start by
building rapport. Then, you set the
schedule. Then you do discovery. Then
you chat solutions. Finally, you chat
investments. And then you send a
proposal that includes all that
information. So let's start with the
first, which is rapport. So at all of my
companies, I have always adhered to the
idea that rapport is important and
people tend to buy things from people
that they like. Some disagree, that's
fine. Uh but this is what works for us,
so it's what I'm going to start with.
Our very first job is simple. You just
get them to smile. That's it. Uh in my
case, I do this usually by providing a
light joke or a compliment or something
like that. Most of the time, I literally
just ask, "Hey, where are you based?"
And if they're based somewhere I know
of, it's like, "No way. I love that
city. How long have you been living
there for?" It's not rocket science or
anything. This is just like social
lubricant. So, it can take as little as
10 seconds. Once you're done with that,
you transition to the next stage by just
saying something like, "All right, you
guys ready to jump in?" The next stage
is setting the schedule. And this is
really where we start getting important.
So, the idea here is you lay out a road
map and then you frame the call.
Basically, you take control of the call
and show them that you have a defined
structure for it. So, you will literally
say something like, "Hey, here's how
these calls usually go. First, I want to
understand why you booked. Then I want
to dig a little bit deeper in your
business, maybe chat some numbers. Then
finally, if I think we can help, I will
show you what that looks like and we'll
talk about next steps. Does that sound
good? Great. All you're really doing
here is you're setting the frame.
There's nothing mystical, nothing
magical. Basically, just telling them
what you are going to do and then later
we are going to do it. So, let's
actually do it. Well, this is discovery.
And I think this is probably the most
important part of the call because
what's really interesting is if you just
ask the questions that you want to know
the answers to, the client will
literally give you all of the ammunition
you need to close the deal. A good
example of this is, "Why did you decide
to book the call?" Probably the highest
ROI question ever, and basically nobody
asks it. It's just like, "Hey, Peter, I
know you get a lot of cold emails every
day, so just tell me why did you decide
to book a call with me and not the other
20 people that are sending you cold
emails? What about my offer made you
want to say yes? If you just ask every
person that comes into any sort of
salesunnel that question, you are like
70 80% of the way there. It's that easy.
Another good question, what is the goal
right now? You know, if you don't have a
goal to move towards, if you don't have
some sort of north star, then a lot of
the time you're just wasting your time.
So, just get them to tell you what their
goals are. And the whole reason why is
because when they tell you what your
goals are, you just get to frame
everything that you do in pursuit of
that goal. Another great one is, so
assuming we fix this for you, what are
you thinking it'll do to the company?
Here they will literally tell you, hey,
you know, if you fix this, we're going
to make tons more money. Hey, uh, you
know, right now this is costing us like
30 grand a month. If you fix this for
us, you'll solve that leak. Hey, hm,
right now we're currently spending
$3,000 a month per person on three staff
members. And if you build this system,
we could probably just fire them all.
Well, guess what? Now you know at least
at a bird's eye view the impact or
outcome of the system that you are going
to be proposing them. And as long as you
can frame that as a positive return on
investment, man, you're golden. Another
great question is why haven't you guys
done this yet? So it's like, hey, what
has stopped you guys from doing this up
until now? You guys know that this has
been a problem for the last 6 months or
something like that as you have told me.
So why are we only acting on this now?
And basically the whole idea is you just
ask a bunch of questions and then in
doing so get all of the data you need to
later close them. That is what discovery
is. Okay, people dress it up in a
million in one ways, especially
enterprise consultants because they like
to sound all fancy. But discovery is
basically like, "Hey man, tell me where
to shoot and then I'll shoot." Obviously
sales is not you shooting somebody. But
hopefully you get my point. And then uh
when you're asking the questions, the
ones that I showed you guys a moment
ago, my recommendation is also ask
follow-ups that are relevant to your
situation. If somebody says their goal
is to close more clients, you know, just
ask them, "Oh, no way. So um how much is
a client paying when they get in the
door?" And the whole idea is, you know,
again, you are just building out like
more, I guess, a wider perspective and
multiple vantage points on the pain
points they're suffering from. I find it
also just demonstrates that you're an
active listener. And yeah, this is
really like at the heart of sales. Step
four is to propose these solutions. So
once you guys have got the full picture,
you know, once they've told you
everything you need to know about what
pain they are suffering from, all you
need to do is you just position your
system or your product as a logical
solution to that pain. And usually this
looks something like, "Okay, so we've
solved many similar problems to X, Y,
and Z before, and this is a great fit
for our system. To make a long story
short, we're going to solve X by doing
Y. Uh, my hope is it will save you Z
dollars every month. Would you like to
see an example of how this works?" And
then, you know, because systems are
visual, uh, and you want to make them
concrete, you just give them a
demonstration of what the thing looks
like. you know, you have a system
library or something like that with five
or 10 systems that you routinely sell
and you just have the ability to demo
any of them at the time that the client
wants. And the benefit to selling in
this way too is it's vastly simplifies
later on down the line because now
you're showing them systems that you
have templates for. Meaning, if they
say, "Hey, I really like that." Guess
what you do when you deliver it? You
just duplicate the thing and you spend
15 minutes touching it up or making
minor additions to it. Right? So, this
is like templated sales. It's
productized sales. It's you starting
kind of at the end and then working your
way backwards, which is very valuable.
And then step five is to frame the
investment. So finally after, you know,
we built up all this value, we've
discovered, you know, all of their pain
points, we press those pain points, we
position our solution as being the right
fit, we got to drop the price. And my
recommendation is you always do this at
the end because if you do it at the end,
you built up a tremendous amount of
value in the customer's eyes. Whereas if
you try and drop the price at the
beginning, what you're doing is you're
just giving them a number that they're
going to fixate on and then spending
your entire sales call justifying it
later on. Obviously, if somebody asks
you point blank, hey, how much is XYZ
solution? and they're very specific
about it, you know, for the most part, I
will answer if they seem like they want
to buy. But otherwise, I will almost
always continue building value, asking
them the right questions and getting to
them to the point where they're almost
asking me. So, like, dude, like, tell me
how much this thing costs already, man,
cuz it sounds like it's perfect. So, a
good way to actually frame this, and
just an example you guys could use in
your own sales calls is, hey, based on
what you told me to save you that
$50,000 price tag, our project would
cost 19 grand. assuming there's nothing
else we need to add on, your investment
would pay for itself in literally the
first month. And that framing is
powerful because they've already told
you the size of their pain. You just
kind of stick two and two together,
right? Uh two important parts here for
beginners. The first is again, always
frame it as an investment. And then
number two, when you drop the price,
just shut up. You know, just don't say
anything. It's pretty much the only like
tense part or high-risisk part of a
sales call. And you can navigate
completely just by not saying anything
after you drop the price. It's kind of
like the first person to speak loses,
right? So, when you say that $19,000
part in this hypothetical example, just
say it and then wait. From there, you'll
probably start getting some objections
to deal with and so on. And I want to
say that like handling these is a
learned skill, uh, it can be quite the
skill as well. It's not anything that
I'm going to be able to show you guys in
just a few minutes here on YouTube. But
in general, some highle recommendations
that can save you some time. If somebody
wants it cheaper, don't just give them a
discount. Instead, remove line items
from your scope or remove some
functionality from the system you are
pitching so that you are not actually
reducing the price or value of your
service. And so that the person on the
other end of the line is now forced to
make a decision about what aspects of
your service they value the most. This
actually additionally gives you more
information about what it is that they
want. And it can help you, I don't know,
reach some middle point later on. Also,
if somebody gives you a vague, hey, I
need to think about it. I want you to
know that's almost never the actual
reason that they don't want to move
forward. They have an objection of some
kind. Almost always, there's almost
certainly some additional reason that's
stopping them from taking action. You
probably just didn't inoculate the sale.
Uh you probably just didn't do a very
good job building the value. And my
recommendation is if you find yourself
in a situation like this, just go one
level deeper and ask them, okay, yeah,
that makes sense. Would this system
solve the needs that you put in front of
me? And if they say no to that, then you
now have the real reason that they don't
want to work together, which you can
just handle on the spot. If they say yes
to that, then you know that, you know,
there's probably very little that you
can realistically do here. And uh, you
know, you can send your proposal and
move on. And if somebody is unwilling to
make a decision right then and there, I
want you to know that that's okay. A lot
of high ticket sales people will try and
force you to push a client into making a
decision on a call. My recommendation is
you don't do any of that. You know,
somebody says they have to talk to their
spouse or whatever. That's okay. Uh
we're consultants. We're not high ticket
sales people. We're not car sales
people. Okay? Our margins aren't 3%.
Just tell them that you'll send them a
proposal with way more details that's
much more in-depth that writes
everything out verbatim and uh give them
all the time that they need and then
just set your proposal to automatically
follow up for you. Speaking of
proposals, step six is sending the
proposal. And the thing is, finally,
because the systems that we are selling
are technical, you need something
written down. You know, it's like one
thing if you just say it on a sales call
or whatever, but we're dealing with
technical solutions here. If there's any
sort of expectation mismatch, that can
lead to very, very bloated scopes and a
lot more time and energy written. So, my
recommendation is just always like have
a proposal written with a scope on it.
And you guys can check a previous video
that I posted all about how to do
proposals if you want an example of
that. And then what's really cool is
most proposal platforms like Panda do
and better proposals and stuff like
that, these have like um automatic
follow-up features now. So what you can
do is you can just fire the proposal off
and just set it to automatically follow
up over and over and over again over the
course of the next week or two. You can
also set like a time expiry with a
specific offer. There are a lot of like
downstream tactical ways of doing this,
I would say, but basically when you take
the layer approach to sales where you
try not to close directly on the call
and then you just send a proposal
instead, like you will absolutely miss
closing some clients that you could have
otherwise closed. But I do find that in
general, the people that you end up
working with tend to prefer working with
you because they didn't just make an
emotional decision on the spot. They
made both a logical and an emotional
decision. And when we're dealing with
like technical stuff like this, it's
imperative that they make both. Okay.
So, I'm going to include this script
below in the description. Feel free to
use it anytime. Let's move on to the
next major pillar, which is onboarding.
All right. So, after you close that deal
and you've collected payment, you now
need a process to onboard the new client
into your ecosystem. Onboarding sets the
tone for the entire relationship. If you
guys get this wrong, you will create
endless headaches for yourself and your
probability of upselling them later on
or retaining them, which I'll show you
how to do, is going to plummet. Whereas,
if you nail this, you know, you'll look
very professional. You look very
organized and the probability of making
more money goes way the hell up. That's
why you should frontload everything into
a kickoff call. And there's a link to my
SOP, standard operating procedure, down
below in the description. Here is how a
good kickoff call always goes. First,
you start with an introduction. Then,
you do goals and timelines. Then you
chat communications for finally doing
platform access and two-factor
authentication. Let's start with the
first. So introductions and framing. You
know this is very similar to what we
were doing on the setting the schedule
for the sales call. It's like one minute
tops. What you're doing is you are
thanking the person for joining. Uh
you're chatting who's who on the call.
You know if people have multiple I don't
know directors or associates or
whatever. They just set the frame, which
by the way is, hey, my goal by the end
of this call is I want our company to
have everything we need so we don't have
to bother you or ask for permissions
every day for the next week. You know,
somebody that's done many of these
projects until now. The biggest issue in
the space is logistics. Two-factor
authentication codes, passwords, access,
and stuff like that. And these can be a
nightmare if you let them drag out. So,
instead of chasing these things for
weeks, I just want to handle it live on
this call. I also want to cover
timelines. I want to cover how we're
going to communicate with you, then walk
you guys through any platforms that I
need to sign up for. Does that sound
good? Obviously, they're going to say,
"That sounds great." And you now have
built instant trust. You've implied or I
guess explicitly stated that you have
done this thing before, which builds
more social proof. Uh, and then you've
shown them that you have like a
dedicated process for handling what are
problems that routinely come up with
other freelancers. And by the way, if
they've ever worked with any other
freelancer that has done something like
this or any other agency, they know
exactly what you're talking about.
permissions, access, logistics, etc. end
up being like the biggest headache for
any sort of systemsbased thing. So, step
two are goals and timelines. So, here
I'd recommend laying out exactly what's
going to happen over the course of your
client engagement. Cover timelines,
cover how long it's going to take for
various things to happen, and so on and
so forth. Cover what they can expect to
get at every step. And then after you're
done, we'll sign them up to the
platforms that we need. This might be
something like, hey, our goal is to
start today and then I want to wrap this
up within 3 weeks. Obviously, if we
could deliver the project earlier, we
will. The project will be split into
three clear milestones so you always
know where things stand. Here's how they
work. When you do stuff like this,
clients love it. Uh odds are they've
been burned by consultants before who
typically start working with them and
then disappear into a black hole. When
you do this, you're showing them that
they will not have to chase you. You're
almost always on top of things. And
speaking about being on top of things,
that's where communication expectations
come into play, which is step three.
with communication expectations. You
say, "Hey, you'll get one daily update
Monday to Friday over Slack or over
email or over WhatsApp. You know, it'll
include where the project's at, what's
coming next, and if I have any blockers
that I need you to help me with, and if
you have any one-off questions, I'm just
going to batch them and then cover them
in that daily check-in. Does that work
for you?" This one move will literally
save you 90% of all of the back and
forth chaos in any sort of client
engagement. You know, one of the big
issues with clients in practice tends to
be if you don't set firm boundaries,
which as a beginner, you probably do not
know how to do, clients end up
swallowing up a disproportionate amount
of your time on silly like
questions or random calls or hey, I had
an idea for the thing. Just don't let
them do that. Build your own structure
in and then tell them that, hey, you
know, if anything comes in between the
last instance of our thing and then the
current instance of the thing, I'll just
cover it on the current instance of the
thing. Or if anything comes in between
today and tomorrow, I'll just cover it
all tomorrow. If you do this, you are
now framing your relationship on your
terms and it saves like 99% of all the
headache that you might have in any sort
of engagement. Okay. Then finally, I
personally do platform access on step
four. I think a lot of people screw this
up. You know, I don't just send a list
of login and then wait for weeks. My
recommendation and what we have had over
6,000 people in Maker School do now is
just handle it live on the call. You can
literally say, "Hey, so today we need
admin access to your Slack and admin
access to your Santa. Let's set both of
that stuff up right now." you know, if a
two-factor authentication code pops up,
I'll just have you read it to me and
then we can proceed. We can get all this
stuff done in the next 3 minutes. Sound
cool? Sounds great. You know, when you
do it like that, what realistically
would have taken 20 emails back and
forth or you coordinating weird 3minute
window between 9:00 p.m. and 9:03 p.m.
You frontload all that and you deal with
it here. And then also, because you had
the client sign up to the platforms
later on down the line, you don't have
to do a handoff, which means you don't
have to jump into the client's workspace
and then reset up and duplicate all the
stuff that you've already done. it's
already there to begin with, which saves
you so much time, so much effort. Okay,
last step is wrap-up, which is just a
quick check-in where you ask them if you
have any questions and then you confirm,
"Okay, great. Let's kick this off. I'll
give you guys your first update
tomorrow." This just closes the loop out
and reassures them that you are
effectively off to the races. By the end
of that 30-minute call, the client will
know exactly how you work. Uh you will
have everything you need, and there will
be zero silly back and forth that
doesn't actually contribute materially
to making more money. Let's move on to
fulfillment, which is the fun part,
actually doing the work. I want you to
know fulfillment is not about delivering
the system. What fulfillment is about is
managing the perception of the
engagement. If your client does not feel
like progress is happening, they will
assume that no progress is happening. If
they can't see, you know, what you've
built or if you're not telling them
about what you've built, they will
inherently value it a lot less. So my
recommendation is break fulfillment into
two parts. Okay? You have communication
on the one hand, then you have delivery
on the other. So for communication, keep
it really simple. Clients do not want
big long novels. They want very clear,
concise actions. So, we use simple
templates like the ones that I'm going
to share with you guys down below in the
description. That is something like a
daily check-in Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday over a
messaging platform like Slack that says,
"Hey client, just checking in. No action
needed from your end. We just finished
XYZ thing. We just started XYZ thing.
Uh, let you know how things are going
tomorrow. Thanks for the time." If you
just send one of these every day, which
by the way takes like 60 seconds per
client, it will build massive trust and
substantially improve your ability to
upsell that client later on because
you've established professionalism.
You've established that you know how to
interact with high income, high net
worth or busy people, which is give them
bulletoint overviews of the things that
you need. And then if you know they have
any sort of action they need to take,
spell it out for them. And it's just the
straight assigned path to making money.
So I've included a bunch of variations
of what I just showed you guys. you guys
can copy and paste or maybe I don't know
add to an AI agent to deliver updates
for you like whatever the heck you want
to do really really up to you here but
as long as you have some sort of
constant communication with the client I
want you to know that your lifetime
values will basically double like at a
certain point in services the important
thing is not actually delivering the
service because anybody can deliver the
service your ability to deliver a
service is not the thing that
disambiguates or differentiates you the
thing that differentiates you is your
ability to manage the perception of that
service better than anybody else and
this is a good example of doing So, zero
change to the actual service. And
because you're communicating every day
and being very mindful and professional
about how you do it, you can basically
double your prices. Okay. So, now let's
talk about delivery. Delivery is about
as much as doing the thing as just
presenting the thing in the right way to
them. Now, that might be maybe you're
delivering an automated invoicing system
or uh some sort of LinkedIn scraper or
maybe some sort of Slack workflow or or
whatever. Regardless of the system, the
highest performing agencies will take
these systems and then package them like
products. They're not just going to hand
the clients access to a make.com
workflow or, you know, give them a
scenario and call it a day. Basically,
what they do is they treat it like a
diamond. And when you buy a diamond,
they don't just give you a diamond. You
put the diamond in a box. You wrap it
up, you know, you put some nice fine
satin on it and then wrap it up with a
bow and then you put it in a thing and
attach a card to it, right? These are
things which manage the perception of
the value of the project and that's how
you do a great delivery. So, I'm going
to give you guys a simple email template
you guys can use to dress it up, but
also as a way to go the extra mile. And
what most people are doing nowadays is
in addition to the delivery, I recommend
you record like a 10 or 15 minute Loom
video walkthrough which shows what it
does and then attach some documentation
to that as well. And this is really easy
to do. It just takes a few minutes after
you're done with the project and almost
serves as a way for you to remember what
the outcome of the project was. And most
importantly, you then get to manage the
perception of the delivery, which is
something that's super important. I
don't think a lot of people talk about
it. I'm also going to give you guys
access to my whole Gumroad library with
a bunch of different templates and
builds and automations that I've
personally built and sold to clients for
anything from two to 15K. You guys can
find that directly below in the
description. And yeah, you know, when
you have this and you know how to
package it, you guys could sell
anything, whether it's a random nad
workflow template or a make.com scenario
from my gumroad by just wrapping a nice
bow in it and managing that perception
for thousands of dollars. Finally, let's
chat about retention. Retention is
basically the process of turning a
one-off project into a long-term
relationship and then significantly
increasing the lifetime value of an
engagement. And very few consultants
actually do this, which is unfortunate,
or maybe it's fortunate for us, cuz if
you did great work and your client is
really happy, then they even go as far
as thanking you for that work. Like the
last thing you should be doing is
disappearing and waiting for them to
call you back, you're leaving so much
money on the table. I see it as kind of
like hitting a home run and then
forgetting to actually run the bases.
You know, you guys are going to do a
great job. You might as well get paid
way more money for it. And don't worry,
I got templates for that below, too. So,
the best time to sell a client on a
follow-up project is actually right
after you just wowed them with the
current project. That is when they are
the most excited. It's when they are the
most trusting, and it's also where you
can take advantage of reciprocity to
make more money. The key is you need to
start by overd delivering just a little.
Don't just deliver the thing that you
promised them. Go one step further and
deliver an additional 5%. Don't just
say, "Hey, here's your Slack workflow."
say, "Hey, here's your Slack workflow,
and while I was doing it, I noticed that
you had XYZ things, so I just fixed that
as well. Plus, here's some
documentation." When you do this, you
trigger a sense of reciprocity in the
client, which you can then take
advantage of by pitching out a follow-up
project, and it will significantly
improve the probability they say yes to
that, whether or not they wanted it or
they felt that they needed it. Now, this
is something like, "Hey, so while I was
setting up your Slack system, I noticed
that your guys funnel wasn't sending SMS
messages, which is interesting to me
because I worked with a bunch of people
that make seven, eight figures, and they
all sent SMS messages. Um, I'm thinking
if you fix that, you might be able to
add another $10 or $15,000 a month to
your bottom line. I know it's a bold
ask, but would you be open to me at
least just showing you how to do this
whether or not you work with me? When
you do this and you trigger that sense
of reciprocity, clients obviously tend
to love it. And so, your probability of
actually being able to get them on some
sort of closing call, whether it is for
a one-off project or some sort of
managed service to do the funnel hacking
and optimization or whatever, goes way
the hell up and you can make a ton more.
All right, and that's the entire flow of
creating an AI consulting business in
2026. We chatted marketing, sales,
onboarding, fulfillment, then finally
retention. Now, this exact road map took
me from being stuck to scaling two
agencies past $160,000 per month in
combined revenue. And I'm just giving
you literally all of the assets, all of
the templates, all the scripts, and all
the systems. 100% free. Again, links are
in the description. If you are serious
about this and you want additional help,
including daily accountability, a
community of people who have been in
your exact shoes, and a 90-day customer
guarantee, where I will literally help
you get your very first paying customer
in 90 days for this service or your
money back. Check out Maker School. We
have over 2,500 members that are
learning, testing, and then building
their businesses. And I'd love to see
you in there. I'm in there personally
every single day. And you can also find
a link to that in the description, too.
And finally, I also run an a consulting
firm called Leftclick. It's where we
help businesses from 10K a month
startups all the way up to multi-billion
dollar portfolio companies implement the
sorts of systems that I'm talking about
here. If you guys have a bottleneck you
guys want solved, book a call with my
team. We're more than happy to help.
Cool. Now that the obligatory pitch is
done, thanks for watching. I hope you
guys got real value out of this and I
will see you on the next one. Tears.